# 703-final-project

The last few decades have witnessed an exponential growth in social media content, such that researching the sentiment of text generated by these channels have wide-ranging applications to fields like market research, predicting political leanings, monitoring reviews or reputations for brands, and even web browsers that detect bias in articles. In many ways, sentiment analysis lies at the intersection of many fields such as Natural Language Processing (NLP), Computational Linguistics, and Data Mining.

Given its applications, we believe that classifying sentiment from social media is especially germane now, since the way people communicate online has evolved over the years to use ambiguities in natural language, slangs, or even indirect sentiments (from emojis for example), which make the problem of classifying text via traditional machine learning approaches (like SVMs) more complex. To this effect, for our final project we decided to investigate the sentiments of user tweets via two approaches: a Naive Bayes classifier and Bidirectional Long-Short Term Memory neural network (BiLSTM).

Twitter is a popular micro-blogging service where users post real-time messages (``tweets") about their opinion on a variety of topics. The content on Twitter ranges from views on current affairs, reviews for products or simply complaints about daily life. These tweets have become a source to gauge people's sentiments on a massive variety of topics. However, sentiments on Twitter can be expressed implictly or explicitly; we believe that this can present a challenge undertaking due to their complexity, ambiguity, the morphological richness of their language and the absence of contextual information. In this analysis, we will compare the performance of a probabilistic model with a neural network, both of which classify tweets into positive or negative sentiments based on their content.

##Make a virtual environment
```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

